# Classification-of-ultrasound-images-using-CNN

Fetal ultrasound imaging is commonly used in correctly identifying fetal anatomical struc- tures. This is particularly important in the first-trimester to diagnose any possible fetal malformations. However, manual examination of fetal malformation is influenced by inter- observer variation that can lead to errors in dating pregnancies. Incorrect dating of preg- nancy can lead to delay in diagnosis of fetal growth disorders and cause intrauterine fetal demise. A Machine Learning based approach has been adopted to reduce inter-observer variation and help standardise accurate image acquisition for the measurement of Crown- to-Rump-Length (CRL) on 11 − 13+6 weeks fetal ultrasound scans hence providing an accurate dating of the gestational age of a pregnancy.
This work describes the use of a Transfer Learning approach which implements a pre- trained ResNet50 Deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model, in classifying 11 − 13+6 weeks CRL fetal ultrasound images into correct and incorrect categories. The pre- sented model adopted a skip connection approach to create a deeper network with hyper- parameters which were tuned for the task.
The model has been applied on a real dataset obtained from the NHS consisting of 900 CRL images with 450 correct and 450 incorrect images, and it was able to classify the images with an accuracy of 87% on the training, validation and test datasets.
The project also investigated the difference in performance between segmented and non- segmented images using image pre-proccessing techniques. Along with this the perfor- mance of the ResNet50 architecture was compared to other state-of-the-art architectures. A web application was created to complement the model so fetal obstetric practition- ers can check the accuracy of their image using either a segmented or a non-segmented ResNet50 architecture.
This model can be used by the sonographers to identify correct images for CRL measure- ments and hence help avoid incorrect dating of pregnancies by reducing the inter-observer variation. This can also be used to train sonographers in performing first-trimester scans.
